STEVIE Source Release - 3.69a

This is a source release of the STEVIE editor, a public domain clone
of the UNIX editor 'vi'. The program was originally developed for the
Atari ST, but has been ported to UNIX, OS/2, DOS, and Minix-ST as well.
Ports done by others, but not directly supported by this release, include
Minix-PC, Amiga, and a Data General system of some sort.

The good news about stevie is that it is extremely portable. It supports
systems with virtually all combinations of integer size, pointer size,
and byte order. The only major issue remaining, for some environments,
is that the file is kept in memory. For most environments, this isn't a
problem, but for Minix-PC it is particularly annoying.

Some advantages of Stevie over other versions/clones of 'vi' are:
   -	Built-in help facility.
   -	Tag stacking (for users of CTAGS).
   -	Extensive system-specific features (e.g.- the MSDOS version
   	supports function keys, cursor keys, colors, 43-line mode;
   	the stubs are there to add such support to other systems.)
   -	You have the source code.

The files included in this release are:

README
	This file.

stevie.mm
stevie.doc
	Reference manual for STEVIE. Assumes familiarity with vi.

source.doc
	Quick overview of the major data structures used.

porting.doc
	Tips for porting STEVIE to other systems.

os2.mk
unix.mk
dos_msc.mk
dos_tc.mk
tos.mk
minix.mk
	Makefiles for OS/2, UNIX, DOS, and the Atari ST (TOS and Minix).
	(DOS_MSC & DOS_TC are for the two most popular DOS C compilers.)

os2.c
unix.c
dos.c
tos.c
minix.c
term.h
env.h
	System-dependent code for the same.

alloc.c ascii.h cmdline.c edit.c enveval.c fileio.c help.c hexchars.c
keymap.h linefunc.c main.c mark.c misccmds.c normal.c ops.c ops.h
param.c param.h ptrfunc.c regexp.c regexp.h regmagic.h regsub.c
screen.c search.c sentence.c stevie.h tagcmd.c term.c undo.c version.c

	C source and header files for STEVIE.

ctags.doc
	Documentation for the accompanying program 'ctags'.

ctags.c
	Source code for the program 'ctags'.

setenv.c
	Source code for an improved SETENV for MSDOS.


To compile STEVIE for one of the provided systems:

	1. Edit the file 'env.h' to set the system defines as needed.

	2. Check the makefile for your system, and modify as needed.

	3. Compile.

Good Luck...

Dave Tutelman - Rel 3.69a
2/27/90

Tony Andrews - Author
8/6/89
