0. Improved efficiency.

* Parse and output array initializers an element at a time, freeing
storage after each, instead of parsing the whole initializer first and
then outputting.  This would reduce memory usage for large
initializers.

1. Better optimization.

* Constants in unused inline functions

It would be nice to delay output of string constants so that string
constants mentioned in unused inline functions are never generated.
Perhaps this would also take care of string constants in dead code.

The difficulty is in finding a clean way for the RTL which refers
to the constant (currently, only by an assembler symbol name)
to point to the constant and cause it to be output.

* More cse

The techniques for doing full global cse are described in the
red dragon book.  It is likely to be slow and use a lot of memory,
but it might be worth offering as an additional option.

It is probably possible to extend cse to a few very frequent cases
without so much expense.

For example, it is not very hard to handle cse through if-then
statements with no else clauses.  Here's how to do it.  On reaching a
label, notice that the label's use-count is 1 and that the last
preceding jump jumps conditionally to this label.  Now you know it
is a simple if-then statement.  Remove from the hash table
all the expressions that were entered since that jump insn
and you can continue with cse.

It is probably not hard to handle cse from the end of a loop
around to the beginning, and a few loops would be greatly sped
up by this.

* Support more general tail-recursion among different functions.

This might be possible under certain circumstances, such as when
the argument lists of the functions have the same lengths.
Perhaps it could be done with a special declaration.

You would need to verify in the calling function that it does not
use the addresses of any local variables and does not use setjmp.

* Put short statics vars at low addresses and use short addressing mode?
Useful on the 68000/68020 and perhaps on the 32000 series,
provided one has a linker that works with the feature.
This is said to make a 15% speedup on the 68000.
This brings to mind Hayes' changes for Stanford MIPS.

* Detect dead stores into memory?

A store into memory is dead if it is followed by another store into
the same location; and, in between, there is no reference to anything
that might be that location (including no reference to a variable
address).

* Loop optimization.

Strength reduction and iteration variable elimination could be
smarter.  They should know how to decide which iteration variables are
not worth making explicit because they can be computed as part of an
address calculation.  Based on this information, they should decide
when it is desirable to eliminate one iteration variable and create
another in its place.

It should be possible to compute what the value of an iteration
variable will be at the end of the loop, and eliminate the variable
within the loop by computing that value at the loop end.

When a loop has a simple increment that adds 1,
instead of jumping in after the increment,
decrement the loop count and jump to the increment.
This allows aob insns to be used.

* Using constraints on values.

Many operations could be simplified based on knowledge of the
minimum and maximum possible values of a register at any particular time.
These limits could come from the data types in the tree, via rtl generation,
or they can be deduced from operations that are performed.  For example,
the result of an `and' operation one of whose operands is 7 must be in
the range 0 to 7.  Compare instructions also tell something about the
possible values of the operand, in the code beyond the test.

Value constraints can be used to determine the results of a further
comparison.  They can also indicate that certain `and' operations are
redundant.  Constraints might permit a decrement and branch
instruction that checks zeroness to be used when the user has
specified to exit if negative.

* Smarter reload pass.

The reload pass as currently written can reload values only into registers
that are reserved for reloading.  This means that in order to use a
register for reloading it must spill everything out of that register.

It would be straightforward, though complicated, for reload1.c to keep
track, during its scan, of which hard registers were available at each
point in the function, and use for reloading even registers that were
free only at the point they were needed.  This would avoid much spilling
and make better code.

* Change the type of a variable.

Sometimes a variable is declared as `int', it is assigned only once
from a value of type `char', and then it is used only by comparison
against constants.  On many machines, better code would result if
the variable had type `char'.  If the compiler could detect this
case, it could change the declaration of the variable and change
all the places that use it.

* Order of subexpressions.

It might be possible to make better code by paying attention
to the order in which to generate code for subexpressions of an expression.

* More code motion.

Consider hoisting common code up past conditional branches or
tablejumps.

* Trace scheduling.

This technique is said to be able to figure out which way a jump
will usually go, and rearrange the code to make that path the
faster one.

* Distributive law.

The C expression *(X + 4 * (Y + C)) compiles better on certain
machines if rewritten as *(X + 4*C + 4*Y) because of known addressing
modes.  It may be tricky to determine when, and for which machines, to
use each alternative.

Some work has been done on this, in combine.c.

* Jump-execute-next.

Many recent machines have jumps which optionally execute the following
instruction before the instruction jumped to, either conditionally or
unconditionally.  To take advantage of this capability requires a new
compiler pass that would reorder instructions when possible.  After
reload may be a good place for it.

On some machines, the result of a load from memory is not available
until after the following instruction.  The easiest way to support
these machines is to output each RTL load instruction as two assembler
instructions, the second being a no-op.  Putting useful instructions
after the load instructions may be a similar task to putting them
after jump instructions.

* Pipeline scheduling.

On many machines, code gets faster if instructions are reordered
so that pipelines are kept full.  Doing the best possible job of this
requires knowing which functional units each kind of instruction executes
in and how long the functional unit stays busy with it.  Then the
goal is to reorder the instructions to keep many functional units
busy but never feed them so fast they must wait.

* Can optimize by changing if (x) y; else z; into z; if (x) y;
if z and x do not interfere and z has no effects not undone by y.
This is desirable if z is faster than jumping.

* For a two-insn loop on the 68020, such as
  foo:	movb	a2@+,a3@+
	jne	foo
it is better to insert dbeq d0,foo before the jne.
d0 can be a junk register.  The challenge is to fit this into
a portable framework: when can you detect this situation and
still be able to allocate a junk register?

* For the 80387 floating point, perhaps it would be possible to use 3
or 4 registers in the stack to hold register variables.  (It would be
necessary to keep track of how those slots move in the stack as other
pushes and pops are done.)  This is probably very tricky, but if
you are a GCC wizard and you care about the speed of floating point on
an 80386, you might want to work on it.

2. Simpler porting.

Right now, describing the target machine's instructions is done
cleanly, but describing its addressing mode is done with several
ad-hoc macro definitions.  Porting would be much easier if there were
an RTL description for addressing modes like that for instructions.
Tools analogous to genflags and genrecog would generate macros from
this description.

There would be one pattern in the address-description file for each
kind of addressing, and this pattern would have:

  * the RTL expression for the address
  * C code to verify its validity (since that may depend on
    the exact data).
  * C code to print the address in assembler language.
  * C code to convert the address into a valid one, if it is not valid.
    (This would replace LEGITIMIZE_ADDRESS).
  * Register constraints for all indeterminates that appear
    in the RTL expression.

3. Other languages.

Front ends for Pascal, Fortran, Algol, Cobol, Modula-2 and Ada are
desirable.

Pascal, Modula-2 and Ada require the implementation of functions
within functions.  Some of the mechanisms for this already exist.

4. Generalize the machine model.

* Some new compiler features may be needed to do a good job on machines
where static data needs to be addressed using base registers.

* Some machines have two stacks in different areas of memory, one used
for scalars and another for large objects.  The compiler does not
now have a way to understand this.

5. Precompilation of header files.

In the future, many programs will use thousands of lines of header files.
Compiling the headers might be slower than compiling the guts of any one
source file.  Here is a scheme for precompiling header files to make
compilation faster for a sequence of headers which is often used.

A precompiled header corresponds to a sequence of header files.  The
preprocessor recognizes when the input starts with a sequence of
`#include' commands and searches a data base for a precompiled header
corresponding to that sequence.  The modtimes of all these files are
stored in the data base so that one can tell whether the precompiled
header is still valid.

For robustness, each directory should have its own collection of
precompiled headers and its own data base of them.  Probably each
precompiled header would be a file and the data base would be one
more file.

The data base records the entire collection of predefined macros and
their definitions, except for __FILE__, __LINE__ and __DATE__, for
each precompiled header.  If this collection does not match the setup
at the start of the current compilation (including the results of -D
and -U switches), the precompiled header is inapplicable.  It might
be possible to have distinct precompiled headers for the same sequence
of header files but different collections of predefined macros.

The state of any option that affects macro processing, such as -ansi
or -traditional, must also be recorded, and the precompiled header is
valid only if these options match.

The precompiled header contains an ordered series of strings.  Some
strings are marked "unconditional"; these must be compiled each time
the precompiled header is used.  Other strings are have keys, which
are identifiers.  A string with keys must be compiled if at least one
of its keys is mentioned in the input.  The order these strings appear
in the precompiled header is called their intrinsic order.

The C preprocessor reads in the precompiled header file and scan all
the strings, making for each key an entry in the same symbol table
used for macros, pointing at a list of all the strings for which it is
a key.  Each string must have a flag (one flag per string, not one per
key per string).  The same code in `rescan' that detects references to
macros would detect a reference to a key and flag all of the strings
that it belongs to as needing to be output.

Each of these strings is immediately recursively macroexpanded (i.e.
`rescan' is called), but the output from this is discarded.  The
expansion is to detect any other keys mentioned in the string, and to
define any macros for which the string contains a #define.  The key's
symbol table entry is be deleted to save time if the key is
encountered again, and to avoid an infinite recursion.

The unconditional strings are macroexpanded with `rescan' (but the
output is discarded) at some time before anything is actually output.

At the end of compilation, before any of the actual input text is
output, the list of strings is scanned in the intrinsic order, and
each string that is unconditional or flagged is output verbatim,
except that any #define lines are discarded.

Precompiled headers would be constructed by explicit request with a
special tool.  The first step is to run cpp on the sequence of header
files' contents.  This would use a new option that would cause all
#define lines to be output unchanged as well as defining the macro.
The second step is to divide the output into strings, some keyed and
some unconditional.  This division is done without changing the order
of the text being divided up.

JNC@lcs.mit.edu has some ideas on this subject also.

6. Better documentation of how GCC works and how to port it.

Here is an outline proposed by Allan Adler.

I.    Overview of this document
II.   The machines on which GCC is implemented
    A. Prose description of those characteristics of target machines and
       their operating systems which are pertinent to the implementation
       of GCC.
	i. target machine characteristics
	ii. comparison of this system of machine characteristics with
	    other systems of machine specification currently in use
    B. Tables of the characteristics of the target machines on which
       GCC is implemented.
    C. A priori restrictions on the values of characteristics of target 
       machines, with special reference to those parts of the source code
       which entail those restrictions
	i. restrictions on individual characteristics 
        ii. restrictions involving relations between various characteristics
    D. The use of GCC as a cross-compiler 
	i. cross-compilation to existing machines
	ii. cross-compilation to non-existent machines
    E. Assumptions which are made regarding the target machine
	i.  assumptions regarding the architecture of the target machine
	ii. assumptions regarding the operating system of the target machine
	iii. assumptions regarding software resident on the target machine
	iv. where in the source code these assumptions are in effect made
III.   A systematic approach to writing the files tm.h and xm.h
    A. Macros which require special care or skill
    B. Examples, with special reference to the underlying reasoning
IV.    A systematic approach to writing the machine description file md
    A. Minimal viable sets of insn descriptions
    B. Examples, with special reference to the underlying reasoning
V.     Uses of the file aux-output.c
VI.    Specification of what constitutes correct performance of an 
       implementation of GCC
    A. The components of GCC
    B. The itinerary of a C program through GCC
    C. A system of benchmark programs
    D. What your RTL and assembler should look like with these benchmarks
    E. Fine tuning for speed and size of compiled code
VII.   A systematic procedure for debugging an implementation of GCC
    A. Use of GDB
	i. the macros in the file .gdbinit for GCC
	ii. obstacles to the use of GDB
	    a. functions implemented as macros can't be called in GDB
    B. Debugging without GDB
	i. How to turn off the normal operation of GCC and access specific
	   parts of GCC
    C. Debugging tools
    D. Debugging the parser
	i. how machine macros and insn definitions affect the parser
    E. Debugging the recognizer
	i. how machine macros and insn definitions affect the recognizer

ditto for other components

VIII. Data types used by GCC, with special reference to restrictions not 
      specified in the formal definition of the data type
IX.   References to the literature for the algorithms used in GCC

