Subject: v13i078:  Sun RPC, release 3.9, Part01/15
Newsgroups: comp.sources.unix
Approved: rsalz@uunet.UU.NET

Submitted-by: Stephen X. Nahm <sxn@Sun.COM>
Posting-number: Volume 13, Issue 78
Archive-name: rpc3.9/part01

RPCSRC 3.9 11/30/87

This distribution contains Sun Microsystem's implementation of the
RPC and XDR protocols and is compatible with 4.2BSD and 4.3BSD.  Also
included is complete documentation, utilities, RPC service
specification files, and demonstration services in the format used by
the RPC protocol compiler (rpcgen).  

If you wish to report bugs found in this release, send mail to:

Portable NFS
Sun Microsystems, Inc
MS 12-33
2550 Garcia Avenue
Mountain View, CA  94043

or send Email to nfsnet@sun.com (the Internet) or sun!nfsnet (Usenet).

WHAT'S NEW IN THIS RELEASE

The previous release was RPCSRC 3.2.  As with all previous releases,
this release is based directly on files from Sun Microsystem's
implementation.

New Documentation

1)  New manual pages are provided for the XDR and RPC library
    routines.
2)  Revised versions are provided of the "RPC Programmer's Manual,"
    the "XDR Protocol Specification," and the "RPC Protocol
    Specification."
3)  Three new manuals are provided: "RPCGEN Programmer's Manual,"
    "XDR Technical Notes," and the "NFS Protocol Specification."

New Demonstration Services

4)  The demo directory contains two services used as examples in the
    "RPCGEN Programmer's Manual": msg and dir.
5)  A "sort service" is also provided in RPCL format (.x). This
    service is identical to the "toy" service in RPCSRC 3.2, however
    it is now built with RPCGEN.

New Functionality

6)  rpcgen has been extensively improved.  It now provides client
    stubs in addition to server stubs.  New conventions are used for
    naming procedures to make it easier to convert a non-RPC service
    into an RPC-based service.  The RPC Language (RPCL) has been
    changed slightly (particularly with the specification of variable
    length arrays).  Constants can be defined, and rpcgen now uses
    the C Pre-Processor.  See the "RPCGEN Programmer's manual" for
    details.
7)  rpcinfo can now send broadcast calls to services.

Service Definitions

8)  Service definition files (in RPCGEN format) are now included
    for certain RPC services.  THESE SERVICE DEFINITIONS ARE FOR
    INFORMATION ONLY.  No guarantee is made of their accuracy or
    suitability for any particular purpose.
9)  The Remote Status (rstat) service is supplied.  This service is
    used by perfmeter on Sun workstations to display the server's
    load average, cpu utilization and other information.  This service
    is compatible with 4.2BSD and 4.3BSD only.  No client is supplied.
    (see rpcsvc/rstat.x)

The package may be purchased from Sun for $100.  Order RPC-3.9-X-X-5
for 1/4" tape, or RPC-3.9-X-X-6 for 1/2" tape.
-----
Steve Nahm <sxn@Sun.COM>
for the Portable NFS Team


