			Patch Kit, Version 1.5

		    Copyright (c) 1985, Larry Wall

You may copy the patch kit in whole or in part as long as you don't try to
make money off it, or pretend that you wrote it.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Please read all the directions below before you proceed any further, and
then follow them carefully.  Failure to do so may void your warranty. :-)

After you have unpacked your kit, you should have all the files listed
in MANIFEST.

Installation

1)  Run Configure.  This will figure out various things about your system.
    Some things Configure will figure out for itself, other things it will
    ask you about.  It will then proceed to make config.h, config.sh, and
    Makefile.

    You might possibly have to trim # comments from the front of Configure
    if your sh doesn't handle them, but all other # comments will be taken
    care of.

2)  Glance through config.h and common.h to make sure system dependencies
    are correct.  Most of them should have been taken care of by running
    the Configure script.

    If you have any additional changes to make to the C definitions, they
    can be done in the Makefile, or in config.h.

3)  make

    This will attempt to make patch in the current directory.

4)  make install

    This will put patch into a public directory (normally /usr/local/bin).
    It will also try to put the man pages in a reasonable place.

5)  Read the manual entry before running patch.

6)  IMPORTANT!  Help save the world!  Communicate any problems and
    suggested patches to me, lwall@sdcrdcf.UUCP (Larry Wall), so we can
    keep the world in sync.  If you have a problem, there's someone else
    out there who either has had or will have the same problem.

    If possible, send in patches such that the patch program will apply them.
    Context diffs are the best, then normal diffs.  Don't send ed scripts--
    I've probably changed my copy since the version you have.

    Watch for patch patches in net.sources.bugs or net.news.b.  Patches
    will generally be appliable (is that a word?) by the patch program.  If
    you are just now bringing up patch and aren't sure how many patches
    there are, write to me and I'll send any you don't have.


NEW FEATURES IN THIS RELEASE

(Correct) support for 4.3-style context diffs.
Files can be created from scratch.
You can specify a fuzz-factor for context matching.
You can force patch to ask no questions.
You can specify how much of the leading pathname to strip off filenames.
Uses a Configure script for greater portability.
You are now asked if you want to apply a reversed patch.
