                           mand32c

       A Mandelbrot set calculator for the Sparc and S32-C

                (C) Copyright 1991 Ariel Corp.
                        433 River Road
                   Highland Park, N.J 08904
                             USA

                          (908) 249-2900
                     FAX: (908) 249-2123
                     BBS: (908) 249-2124

This program will calculate and display the Mandelbrot set using the
Ariel S-32C DSP attached processor for the Sparc and compatible SBus
computers.  The program has two modes of operation:

1) S-32C mode: the S-32C is used as the calculation engine.  The
Mandelbrot set calculation is done purely on the S-32C.  When the S-32C
has a line ready for display, it interrupts the host which gets the
data from the board and draws it on the display.

2) host mode: The Sparc CPU is used as the calculation engine.  The
mandelbrot set calculation is done purely on the host.  You may draw
your own conclusions about time and performance by comparing this mode
with mode 1.

Each time the set is drawn, the elapsed time for the calculation is
displayed for the mode of operation selected.  To compare the two
modes, select the other mode and the same calculation will
automatically be performed and timed.  The two times will then be
displayed side-by-side.

You may also want to run a "perfmeter" with mand32c in order to judge
the effect of the two modes on system performance.


Making mand32c:
--------------

Make sure that the environment variable OPENWINHOME is properly set to
your OpenWindows installation directory so that the OpenWindows include
files and libraries can be found.

Type "make".


Using mand32c:
-------------

invoke with:
	mand32c [-d device]

By default, mand32c will run on the first S-32C found.  Use the "-d"
switch to select a different S-32C (e.g. mand32c -d /dev/s32cdsp1 to
use the second S-32C device, if you have more than one S-32C in your
system).

To begin, select the desired mode (calculation engine) and click the
"Draw" button.  After this, changing the calculation engine will cause
the canvas to be cleared and redrawn automatically using the newly
selected calculation engine.

The program also allows you to "zoom-into" the set by using the mouse
to drag a box around the area of interest.  The canvas will be cleared
and redrawn with the boxed area filling the canvas.  To "un-zoom",
click the "Draw" button.  This will redraw the set using the default
values from program startup.

Switching modes after a zoom causes the same area of interest to be
redrawn with the newly selected calcuation engine.  The elapsed time
will be updated when drawing is complete.
